docs/getting_started/Setup.md, before:

# Playground Lite

[[Exit]](../../README.md)  

Welcome to the Nexus Setup.

This document will walk you through the setup needed to get your developer env ready to work with nexus.


## Compiling using Linux OS behind INTEL VPN

### setup the apt repository to use proxy (Add/update the apt conf file)
```
> sudo vi /etc/apt/apt.conf
Acquire::http::Proxy "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911";
Acquire::https::Proxy "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912";
```

### add the following lines to your shell startup script (.bashrc or .zshrc)
```
export http_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911
export https_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912
export ftp_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911
export socks_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:1080
export no_proxy=intel.com,.intel.com,localhost,127.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12
```

### Install the proxy connect package 
```
> sudo apt install connect-proxy
```

### Update your ssh to use proxy when pulling images from github, add the following to ~/.ssh/config
```
Host github.com
     ProxyCommand connect -a none -S proxy-dmz.intel.com:1080 %h %p
```

### Update the docker daemon to use the proxy for pulling docker images (add to /etc/docker/daemon.json)
```
{
 "proxies": {
     "http-proxy": "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911",
     "https-proxy": "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912",
     "no-proxy": "*.test.example.com,.example.org,intel.com,.intel.com,localhost,127.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12"
 }
}
```

### Restart the docker deamon for the chanages to take effect
```
> sudo systemctl restart docker.service
```

[[Exit]](../../README.md)

Commit message:

Scale and Performance rework
NOTE: due to unavoidable circumstances this is going to be a GIANT commit
and hence a GIANT commit message as well.

This commit includes changes for the following:

1. Scale and Perf improvements to Nexus compiler.

   These changes for perf improvements deal with the following:
   a. avoiding PATCH calls to K8s API server. PATCH calls are expensive.
      This commit replaces PATCH calls with PUT.
   b. Remove the caching of child reference in a parent CR.
      Instead of caching the child information in the parent, this commit introduces
      a caching layer in the SDK layer that will build the parent child relationshiop
      ephemerally from the child object. This caching is possible, as the child CR
      also caches its parent info in its labels.

2. Support for Nexus demo/dev workflow using helm charts and docke-compose:
   There are two flavors of these runtimes supported:
    a. K0s as the K8s API Server
    b. KIND as the K8s API Server
    c. K8s workflow that uses the cluster the Kubeconfig points to.

3. Documentation improvements to capture what Nexus IS and what it IS NOT

4. Change to api-gw code to make it more configurable with additional config options

5. Improvements to datamodel templates to:
   a. add additional / convenience makefile targets
   b. introduce helm-chart based install of datamodel

6. Rework and improvements to edge-power-manager demo app to better represent demo usecase

7. Introduces a "perf" application that can be used to trigger different kinds of stress on the runtime

docs/getting_started/Setup.md, after:

# Playground Lite

[[Exit]](../../README.md)  

Welcome to the Nexus Setup.

This document will walk you through the setup needed to get your developer env ready to work with Nexus, when working behind Intel VPN and/or Intel Proxy.


## Package Management Settings

### setup the apt repository to use proxy (Add/update the apt conf file)
```
> sudo vi /etc/apt/apt.conf
Acquire::http::Proxy "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911";
Acquire::https::Proxy "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912";
```

### add the following lines to your shell startup script (.bashrc or .zshrc)
```
export http_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911
export https_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912
export ftp_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911
export socks_proxy=http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:1080
export no_proxy=intel.com,.intel.com,localhost,127.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12
```

### Install the proxy connect package 
```
> sudo apt install connect-proxy
```

### Update your ssh to use proxy when pulling images from github, add the following to ~/.ssh/config
```
Host github.com
     ProxyCommand connect -a none -S proxy-dmz.intel.com:1080 %h %p
```

### Update the docker daemon to use the proxy for pulling docker images (add to /etc/docker/daemon.json)
```
{
 "proxies": {
     "http-proxy": "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:911",
     "https-proxy": "http://proxy-dmz.intel.com:912",
     "no-proxy": "*.test.example.com,.example.org,intel.com,.intel.com,localhost,127.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12"
 }
}
```

### Restart the docker deamon for the chanages to take effect
```
> sudo systemctl restart docker.service
```

[[Exit]](../../README.md)
